# The UI of FinOps

Reports/dashboards are a central _product_ of FinOps. This product is supposed to have good data quality, UX and clarity, which in turn will create trust in what is presented.

## On Treating This Like a Product

Make sure that the visualizations are actively used and in the intended manner (e.g. via telemetry). If the results are not as expected, talk to your audience and find out the reason for the rejection. You might hear things like:

* data quality issues lead to lack of trust
* does not align with our mental model
* there is a forest of dashboards and it's unclear which is maintained ("managed") and which can be ignored
* lack of awareness

Make it easy to report data errors and treat this like a bug. If this lingers, trust errodes quickly.

## On Data Quality

Usage data apparently comes with a delay of 24-48h. So looking at the most recent days might lead your to think that resource usage dropped significantly. A common measure against this is to exclude the previous days.

### Good Enough vs. Perfect

Data quality does not mean 100% accuracy down to the micro-penny in real-time. If you understand what the reporting is used for, you'll understand what "good enough" is.

## Build vs Buy vs Native: when to use what

Where to get your dashboards from:

* native tooling (Google Cloud Cost Management, AWS Cost Explorer etc)
* buy;
  * SaaS: might allow neat inter-cloud visibility
  * buy-then-augment: get some commercial tool, then build your stuff on top of it
* homegrown; this category includes using Tableau, Looker, GBQ and other cloud building blocks

A good starting point is the native tooling, which gives you good insights with little effort. As your FinOps practive matures, the question will be build or buy. 

There can be a multitude of reasons to build:

* control over your own data
* having internal expertise
* easier integration with internal data lakes
* compliance reasons
* and the usual like avoiding vendor lock-in, flexibility, cost structures as things scale

Reasons to buy instead:

* fast time to value
* complex math like armotized RI already there
* the (tool) service provider evolves the tool alongside the evolving cloud service offering
* and the usual like avoiding to put your devs on problems that aren't your core biz or you don't even have the inhouse resources/caps
